[Music]
never sleep on your side or stomach five
reasons why sleep is probably up there
on your list of favorite pastimes right
as soon as you get up in the morning
you're counting down the hours until you
can crawl back into that oh so comfy bed
you don't really pay attention to your
sleeping position just whatever is
comfortable enough to get you into
dreamland faster well it turns out that
you really should be paying attention
before we get into the details as to why
that is how about giving that subscribe
button a quick lick we've got tons of
helpful videos like this one coming out
every single day on our channel if you
don't want to miss a thing on the bright
side of life then go ahead and ring the
bell to be notified each time we post
all right grab your jammies and let's
get started there's really not much
variation to the positions you can sleep
in unless you're clocking out sitting in
a chair or leaning up against a wall
some of us are side sleepers others
sprawl out on their bellies and still
there are those who feel the most
comfortable sleeping on their backs each
of these positions can either help or
hinder your quality of sleep and they
come with their own set of potential
health risks as well so rejoice back
sleepers because here are five reasons
why you should never sleep on your
stomach or side one it strains your
muscles and joints if you sometimes find
yourself waking up with a crick in your
neck some lower back pain or aches and
your hips or knees then it could be
because you're sleeping on your stomach
or side rather than your back these
positions strain your muscles and joints
and don't follow the natural curvature
of your spine plus it's pretty common to
lean on one of your arms when you sleep
on your side or tuck your shoulder under
your ear when you're on your stomach but
doing this constricts the muscles of
your shoulder and neck resulting in
tightness upon waking that can take some
time to stretch out rolling over on your
back however can prevent this strain
from happening in the first place
- it compresses your organs stomach and
side sleepers are also compressing their
organs which doesn't exactly do your
system any good side sleeping is
especially risky because it prevents
your diaphragm from moving freely which
can eventually cause lung problems
trying to get a good night's sleep can
be difficult when you're pregnant so
it's okay if side sleeping is more
comfortable for you and this probably
goes without saying but pregnant women
should avoid sleeping on their stomachs
anyway just opt for your left side
because it's much better for blood
circulation which benefits all parties
involved 3 it can contribute to
worsening heartburn according to the
Cleveland Clinic sleeping on your
stomach can exacerbate heartburn so if
the pain of chronic heartburn and acid
reflux keeps you up at night you might
want to try turning over to sleep on
your back or on your left side sleeping
on your left side
unlike the right has been proven to help
digestion and remove acid from your
stomach and esophagus more quickly
sleeping on your back with your torso
slightly elevated is even better though
since it helps gravity keep your stomach
acid from trying to climb up your
esophagus lying on your right side tends
to aggravate heartburn so try to avoid
that when you're tossing and turning
experts aren't exactly sure as to why
this is but most of them think it has to
do with a lower esophageal sphincter
being too relaxed to push stomach acid
back down when you're in this position
for it can damage your nerves when you
rest your head on your shoulder or arm
as you sleep on your side you are also
pressing on the nerves that run through
the top of your shoulder and down your
arm this can result in finger numbness
throughout the day which is bad for
whatever work you have to do that day
with your hands if you can only sleep
comfortably while on your side or always
wake up curled up on your side no matter
what position you fall asleep in then
yoga instructor and alignment specialist
Jonathan Fitz Gordon suggest investing
in a new pillow getting a pillow that
fits the space between your ear and
shoulder means you don't need to put
your arm there for support this will
keep both sides of your neck the same
length which means that one side won't
be stretched too far in the end this
will make breathing easier and prevent
nerve and muscle damage five you can get
premature wrinkles smooshing half your
face into a pillow can
according to dermatologist dr. Jamie
Davis focus wrinkles on to whichever
side of your face spends more time being
smushed sleeping on your back not only
prevents this from happening but also
let your skin breathe throughout the
night
why sleeping on your back is better most
chiropractors agree that sleeping on
your back is your best bet for good
posture reduced back pain and proper
spinal alignment keeping your back and
neck straight also let your mattress do
its job you know that innovative lumbar
support thing the salesperson kept going
on and on about when you bought the
thing the ideal sleeping position is on
your back without a pillow which rests
your spine on its natural curves leaves
your neck in a neutral position and
doesn't add any of the strain that would
come from elevating it with a pillow of
course there are always going to be
instances when this isn't the best
option if you have problems with snoring
or sleep apnea then most doctors
recommend sleeping on your side to help
with these issues some other good sleep
habits to adopt if you tend to fall
asleep easily and stay asleep the whole
night let's still wake up feeling stiff
then try adding some 5 to 10 minutes
stretching into your morning routine
animals stretch as soon as they wake up
and you don't see them rushing to the
Kairo to get their backs realigned every
week if you have more of a problem
falling asleep then you should still
benefit from a change in your morning
routine adding some exercise to your
stretches will make your body that much
more ready to relax at the end of the
day avoiding caffeine for several hours
and your phone or computer for at least
an hour before bed will also help your
brain quiet down in time for dreamland
if you wake up in the middle of the
night with leg cramps then try
stretching before bed to make sure the
muscle is in tight you could also try
massaging it or apply
heating pad if you're still snoring even
when you're turned on your side then try
clearing your sinuses out with saline
before bed avoiding alcohol consumption
close to bedtime also works wonders to
reduce snoring in fact having alcohol in
your system right before bed can
decrease the amount of time you spend in
REM sleep so an added bonus of avoiding
it before bedtime is a longer more
restful sleep making sure your room is
comfortable also helps so if you can
adjust your thermostat in between 68 and
71 degrees Fahrenheit this is the
recommended room temperature for the
best quality sleep believe it or not
drinking too much water can also be
detrimental to your sleep quality the
rule about getting eight glasses a day
is according to Glasgow based general
practitioner dr. Margaret McCarthy utter
nonsense that can actually cause kidney
damage rather than preventing it it's
also not good for sleep since you'll be
getting up periodically throughout the
night to go to the bathroom if you're
still leading a mostly set in Terry
lifestyle then it's better to stick to
about five cups of water a day if your
problem is getting yourself out of sleep
then be sure to set your alarm clock for
the same exact time every single day
even on the weekends and stick to it
that way your body will settle into a
rhythm and you'll eventually be able to
wake up naturally without an alarm I
know magic so what's your preferred
sleeping position are you gonna try to
become a back sleeper now let us know in
the comments below give this video a
thumbs up if you found it useful and
share it with your friends remember to
subscribe and stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]